---
title: Long Placeholder
author: Tom Wallis
kind: long
layout: post
permalink: /tom-sample/
---

My PhD can be accurately summarised by a series of side-projects like this one.
I suppose this betrays two things about me:

1. I'm driven by curiosity, like a lot of people who decide to flirt with
   academia
2. That curiosity isn't strictly under my control, also like a lot of people who
   decide to flirt with academia
   
At the beginning of my PhD I found I had to take some time off — not much more
than three months in. Not understanding how to direct my work, combined I
suppose with Scottish winters and their famous lack of sunlight, led me to a
depressive episode which had me question whether academia was right for me at
all.

I'm not alone in this, and I know that if a site like this had existed before I
began my PhD I would have likely held off on entering academia. I'm hopeful that
this will help other people, too.

I'm structuring this entry to the site as a list of observations I've made about
the PhD. With any luck it'll help other people too!

Without a doubt, the most important thing I believe postgraduate students should
focus on in the early stages of their research is a disciplined approach to
self-guided work. Even having done a degree and a masters, the scale of a PhD
project makes the study profoundly different to anything else I've undertaken. I
think the most successful of my peers, by and large, have adopted discipline as
a focus of their 9-5 here, and I wish I'd started on the right foot in this way.

Publishing matters more to your supervisor than it does to you, unless you're
looking for particular academic career paths. Two years into my PhD, I'm not
disappointed that I tried to focus on writing a little — it was helpful in some
ways! — but I can see that it took more energy from me than was really
necessary.

Take time off where you can. In Glasgow University Computing Science, at least,
you're allowed *eight weeks of paid leave a year*...and you're given that for a
reason. It's surprisingly easy to get burned out when working and if you feel,
for a week or more, that you can't focus or just can't approach the problems
you've been given in a productive way, book a week or two to go for a long walk
and stare at some walls and *do nothing* until you feel better. Jenny Odell
defines "doing nothing" as something which isn't goal-oriented. I really like
this approach; remember to make time for that.

I found it easy to lose sight of the hobbies I had once I began my PhD, and it
took me two years to get that back. Remember to take time for those.


